Title
Homework Assignment #3 [Required]
Due
Oct 4, 2019 9:00 AM
Number of resubmissions allowed
Unlimited
Accept Resubmission Until
Oct 5, 2019 9:00 AM
Status
Not Started
Grade Scale
Points (max 100.00)
Instructions
In this assignment, you will work with unstructured text data. You should use the NLTK and scikit-learn libraries in this assignment.

Minimal performance [60 points]

Read about Flesch reading-ease test: Flesch-Kincaid_readability_tests
Implement a Python program that will take a long text as an input and return its Flesch reading-ease score (FRES).
Test your program with an electronic book from Project Gutenberg web site (https://www.gutenberg.org/. The output for each book should include: the author, book title, FRES and a corresponding School level.
Baseline performance [60-80 points]

In addition to a minimal performance, derive bag-of-words (BOW) vectors for each of the binary classification data sets (positive and negative movie reviews).  You need to implement a Python program from scratch to compute BOW vectors. The data sets are available here [29MB].
Perform a 5-fold cross-validation of your own kNN algorithm with the BOW-encoded text files and use cosine distance metric. Compute the performance metrics and running times for your kNN algorithm. Search for the best k in the range between 1 and 5.
Test scikit-learn implementation of kNN and compute its performance metrics and running times. Use cosine distance. Search for the best k in the range between 1 and 5.
Good performance [80-95]

Implement your own Naive Bayes Classifier from scratch. Test it with the BOW-encoded files and estimate its performance in a five-fold cross-validation.
Test scikit-learn implementation of Naive Bayes Classifier and estimate its performance in a five-fold cross-validation.
Summarize and analyze the results of kNN and Naive Bayes Classifier in a LaTeX report. Include figures and tables to support your analyses.
Excellent performance [95-100]

Compute FRES scores for the positive and negative reviews. Add FRES to BOW features and perform a feature selection with kNN. Which distance metric should you use?
Add FRES School level as a feature to the BOW features and perform a feature selection with Naive Bayes classifier.
Describe and analyze your results in the report.